---
layout: post
title: What is SMACC
---

##What is SMACC?

SMACC is a way to create categories among CSS code, as a way to differentiate between components of a web page and help the programmer distingush
in there code, what belongs to which section. SMACC is used to avoid repetition when writing code, so that programmers do not simply add class upon class
to redefine elements for specific reasons. Learning SMACC is something new to me, and from a first glance it seems useful, as it can help organize a promgrammers
code. I particularly like the "Layout Rules", as this would help segment out classes and distingush them rather than using generic names. 

For example, here below, layout rules would help distinguish elements on a webpage, if for example a programmer would like to include a 
second sidebar with similar properties, the code would not need to be repeated.


{% highlight css %}
.l-sidebar {
  float: left;
  width: 200px;
  background-color: #f00;
}

{% endhighlight css %}

I do like the sound of SMACC and think it would be useful, though I have doubts in terms of the time scope it would be to alter CSS code, so that
programmers understand the use of SMACC. Also when it comes to adding in more snippets of CSS code that are similar, avoiding the use of repetition and using
the set up classes and implementing that onto child elements. Having not used SMACC in any of my coding, it seems like another stepping stone to understand.

One of the biggest positives of SMACC to programmers I believe, is that it will help with organization, when changes to a website need to be made on a regular basis. This would decrease the amount of time and confusion when changing values of certain classes.

I think more could be done to improve it to further segement out elements, for example, the use of state rules I like, to seperate alerts etc. However, 
if you think about it, a website is made up of many many components, such as header, footer, main, gallery, section, blockquotes, headings, paragraphs and the 
list continues, so wouldn't is seem that SMACC would need to be applied to all of these elements to keep convention. I think more needs to be done
in defining which areas and what precisely can be re-labelled.
 
