---
layout: post
title: SASS
---

###Thoughts on SASS

I can understand the need for CSS pre-processors, as they inprove the use of CSS when coding. When using a CSS pre-processor such as SASS, certain benefits are apparent, such as, not having to repeat lines of code by simply creating variables to hold certain values, in which those variables can be implemented throughout the code to pull the values. Seems simple, right? That was my intial thought. People tend to have many issues and complaints with vanilla CSS due to the organization, its structure and the constant repetition, which makes it harder to edit the code if you are wanting to change one value.

CSS pre-processors, such as SASS offer new ways in which programmers can bulk their code together under a form of one or multiple variables to allow easy alterations, quick navigation and clearer, cleaner organization. Using such methods as variables and mixins make it more efficient for the programmer and are somewhat easy to use.

After having experimented a little with SASS, I can see the benefits that it offers, however it is hard to master and comphrend initially, and to be honest I had difficulty distinguishing which elements, particularly with mixins are singular and multiple and how this effects the markup of the code. This element was confusing for me, though with practice I see SASS as the new way and better way for programmers to code.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/anonymous/8093b5965fad7ff4c006.js"></script>


<p data-height="698" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="mIhpu" data-default-tab="result" data-user="harveensandhu" class='codepen'>See the Pen <a href='http://codepen.io/harveensandhu/pen/mIhpu/'>mIhpu</a> by Harveen Sandhu (<a href='http://codepen.io/harveensandhu'>@harveensandhu</a>) on <a href='http://codepen.io'>CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="//codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
